Next up you have a quick exercise using a while loop.
So this is a use case for a while there that we could not duplicate with a for loop.
So the idea is based off of my experiences growing up with my sisters where we'd play this stupid game
where you would you know copy one another and mimic everything the other person said.
So in this case we'll start off by asking for input.
Can say whatever you want and then a user enters a response and then immediately we get the same response
printed out again back and everything they say is duplicated.
So basically it keeps asking for input and it prints out the exact same thing that is input and then
if you say stop copying me.
And so Lupino say Fine you win.
Which is highly unrealistic because with my sisters any time you say stop copying me it would just make
them copy you more.
But for our example stop copying me is going to be the magic code that ends the game and game is a bit
of a stretch.
So you aspirin put whatever the input is.
If it's not.
Stop copying me.
You print it back out and you ask for input again and then you print it out.
Keep going until the user says stop copying me.
So go ahead and pause that video pause the video and then I'll have a solution right now.
Here I am again.
Get up to my terminal and I'll make a new file called this one Sister Y and I'll open it up and the
first thing will do is ask for input.
So let's have a variable called Message equals input say something and then we'll have a while loop
which will say Well message is not equal to stop copying me.
While that's the case we're going to print message back and if I just read this now what would happen.
Well I would get an infinite loop.
It would assuming that I didn't say stop copying me the first time.
But whenever you enter in like applesauce it will print applesauce a million times an infinite number
of times until your computer runs out of memory or it shuts down or you throw the computer out the window.
So we've got while it's not equal stop copying me print the message.
So we need to update message.
So I'll ask again.
Message equals input and we could just leave it like that without a prompt.
And let's see what happens.
Go back touch her out here.
Let's go with Python 3.
Sister say something so bananas get bananas back.
I type in Hello.
And then let's do stop copying me.
And it ends.
So that works what we could also do is at the end add a message that says ugh fine you win rather and
no types of thing.
I always get the same thing back and I said type stop copying me.
Ugh fine you win.
Rather one tiny refactor we could do.
We don't need a separate print.
I could just do message like this where we're using the old version of message remember that input.
Well that was to prompt the only thing about that is that we don't get a space
are you there.
Go away.
Stop copying me
so we could do a little string here if we wanted to put message inside of it like this and then add
a space.
Now if I run say something low I now have a newline afterwards.
Anyway it's just a minor change.
Honestly I don't think it's actually worth it to get rid of that print.
But I will put both versions here.
So let's go.
Copy that one.
And then here I'll go back to the old version which was message equals input in the first line was print
message.
OK.
So we are done with this exercise.
Now we're going to move on and talk about something called break.
It's a way of exiting a loop prematurely.
So that's coming up.